Muslims should vote for candidates that
are willing to advance his religious
agenda. These messages may be by
Singaporeans, but we should also re
reject them. And worried a Christian, a
Hindu or Buddhist group making the same
demand, our response would be the same.
I'm calling this press conference in the
middle of the campaign as prime minister
because it concerns a matter of national
interest. You would have seen MHA's
press statement last
night. As prime minister, I cannot
emphasize this enough. Singapore's
greatest strength is our unity across
race and religion. It is the bedrock of
our multi-racial and multi-religious
society. And this is not accidental. It
is the result of painstaking hard work
and patient effort by generations of
Singaporeans. In the past few days, we
have detected online activity by foreign
actors urging Singaporeans to vote along
religious lines.
They say vote for so and so because he
or she will better present represent a
particular race or
religion. These foreigners targeted
Singaporeans and their social media post
were also widely shared within the
Singaporean community that crosses the
line. Singaporeans may have different
views about issues, but we cannot allow
external actors to exploit whatever
differences we may have to weaken us or
to advance their own
interests. Singapore's politics must be
for Singaporeans alone to
decide. And so we have blocked access to
these post and we will continue to act
firmly against any such
actions. Foreign influence is one side
of the coin. There are also other posts
circulating online attempting to bring
race and religion into politics. Uh, one
example is a recent social media post by
a Singaporean activist proposing that
Muslims should vote for candidates that
are willing to advance his religious
agenda. These messages may be by
Singaporeans, but we should also re
reject them. And worried a Christian, a
Hindu or Buddhist group making the same
demand, our response would be the
same. Mixing politics with religion is
unacceptable in
Singapore. We have always taken a firm
stance against
this. First, it fractures the common
space we share as
Singaporeans. Second, once elections
become contest of faith, all communities
in our society will end up worse off.
Third, external powers will seek to
exploit these fault lines to advance
their own agendas. And as we have
already seen, these challenges and
threats are very
real. Now, this does not mean that we
cannot engage and address the needs of
our different communities or even talk
about race and religion. I myself make a
point to engage these different
communities. I know it's harder for our
minority groups as it is in any
multi-racial society and I'm grateful
for their efforts in upholding our
social compact in Singapore.
The engagements I do help us help the
government to better understand the
concerns and needs of our diverse
communities so that we can address
concerns and issues in a way that
expands our common ground and
strengthens our
society. But such engagements are very
different from identity politics which
we should firmly reject. What is
identity politics? Identity politics
means candidates and MPs appealing for
support on the basis of race or religion
and championing the interest of that
particular group over other groups and
over everything
else. That's dangerous because when one
group jostles aggressively to assert its
identity, others will organize and start
to jostle back. And you can see how this
plays out in countries everywhere. You
end up fueling our worst tendencies,
hostilities, and vengefulness across
society. No one wins when this
happens. The minority groups will fail
to get what they want because the
majority group will push back strongly
and the minorities will find their space
constricted.
At the same time, the majority group
will also live in the most unhappy
society where every issue comes down to
race and
religion. So no one is happy, no one
wins. And in the end, we will be more
divided than before. And Singaporeans,
all of us will pay the
price. So I call on all political
parties to make their positions clear on
this matter. This is not a partisan or
party matter. This is a matter of
national importance. In particular, I
invite the leaders of all political
parties to make their stand clear not
just on foreign interference but on two
fundamental
principles. First, that identity
politics has no place in Singapore.
Second, that we should never mix
religion and
politics. At the end of the day,
whatever our differences, we are all
Singaporeans first and foremost. I thank
Singaporeans of all races and religions
for having supported this multi-racial
and multi-religious approach all this
while, which has enabled us to build a
successful and harmonious Singapore. I
am confident that even now the majority
of Singaporeans across all racial groups
support this approach.
I ask Singaporeans to continue doing so.
Then we can protect this oasis of peace
and sustain our exceptional harmony for
many more years to come.
[Music]